The dispatches published to-day from Jamaica, via Holland Bay, St. Thomas, and London, make it clear that the City of Kingston has been practically destroyed, and that the loss of life is very great.  
SOME one has called the rhymes of Uncle Remus indispensable, and the adjective is hardly too strong for the fact. Certainly we do well to cherish to the uttermost a strain that is never to be replaced or imitated. Beside these songs of the ancient...
Although the North Atlantic fleet of our navy arrived in United States waters some time ago, the officers and men were not able to feel that the traditional towline, by which sweethearts and wives pull back the stoutest warships when the "homeward...

WASHINGTON, Aug. 11. -- The tropical hurricane which has been blowing over the Antilles since last Saturday, doing great damage in San Domingo, Jamaica, and Martinique, is moving northward toward the south Cuban Coast, and the United States Weathe...
IN THE Indian Ocean, 500 miles from the Hoogly, the mouth of the Ganges, are the Andamans and Nicobars, two clusters of islands. Great Britain is fairly familiar with the Andamans, for at Port Blair there is a pental colony, where the criminals of...
IT IS proposed by Prof. A.L. Rotch, Di- rector of the Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, to explore the upper regions of the air above the equator by means of kites and balloons raised from ocean steamers.  
It is one of the commonplaces of Shakespearean criticism, which is not yet so commonplace as to be always true, that the great tragedies play themselves. Certain it is that, granted adequate costumes an amountings and actors capable of giving a lo...
Wallack's; Sultan of Sulu
WASHINGTON, Dec. 6. -- President Roosevelt's message to Congress follows: To the Senate and House of Representatives:  
Cyclone in Pondicherry

ALBANY, April 16.--Richard Henry Burke, charged by Senator George F. Thompson of Niagara with offering to turn over to him a campaign fund of 500,000, to be raised by traction interests in return for his support of the  
CHICAGO, Dec. 30. -- The Chicago Tribune will print to-morrow the following statistics in regard to human and material losses suffered during 1913:
CHICAGO, Dec. 30. -- The Tribune to-morrow will give this review of some features of 1911:  
ALTHOUGH tens of thousands are leaving for England with the avowed purpose of seeing the coronation, considerably less than a hundred Americans have any chance whatsoever of witnessing the historic ceremony. Of these the majority will be Americans...
VEGETARIANS tell the people to cut out meat, and the people tell the vegetarians to go to blazes. The people think they want to cut meat -- not cut it out. But natural appetite, working slowly through the years, is doing what the vegetarians canno...
Plane destroyed by cyclone at Calcutta
ONE day in Zanzibar, along the Malinda waterfront, where  air is sweet with the scent of cloves. I heard a crew singing as they made sail on board an Arab dhow. It was a sea chantey, a rousing old song that the monsoons have blown down these Easte...
WITHIN the last fortnight another West India hurricane has swept up out of the tropic seas and  lashed at our Southern and Eastern seaboards.
Cyclone razes bldgs at Nellore; 300 dead, many hurt
WEEKS must pass before an even approximately complete story can be told of the recent West Indian  hurricane which swept with destructive force over Porto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guadeloupe and a number of smaller islands and struck Florida with...
NO comprehensive history of storms has ever been written. There are, to be sure, several statistical records of the  storms of particular regions, extending over decades or ever centuries,
SUMMER brings to the eastern shores of the United States the menace of the West India hurricane. "June--too soon,"  says the saliors' rhyme, but June is not always exempt from there storms. "July--stand by" is an ...
THIS is an unusually good story about Chicago gunmen. It is written in the clipped, swift style that our age-growing rather prematurely self-conscious about artificial civilization and
200 believed killed by cyclone at North Madras; Nellore partly wrecked
The disastrous effects of a heat wave in the Indian Ocean were described by the officers of the British cargo vessel Haleric, which is now at Pier 15, Staten Island, where she arrived a few days ago from India. They say that while they were betwee...
ZANZIBAR, East Africa.-- Those who are looking for the adventure which the sea still offers in 1939 and who  want it for practically nothing will find it in a voyage in an Indian Ocean dhow. There are Arab skippers who will take the traveler acros...

WHILE the first giant Boeing Clipper for Pan American Airways transatlantic service is still being tested on Lake Washington at Seattle, work on her five sister ships continues in the Boeing plants.
ARRIVAL of the twenty-ton Royal Mail Aircraft Cavalier on the waters of Long Island Sound the other day-significant of a new, swift link between the United States and near-by but foreign Bermuda and the first air service actually gotten under way ...
CONSTRUCTION of aircraft engines 66 per cent more power ful than the 1,500 horsepower  R-2000, the largest now in produc tion in the world, was foreshadowed recently by Guy W. Vaughan, president of the Curtiss-Weight Corporation, who outlined a fo...
Article on native productions


WASHINGTON, Nov. 8. -- It is a wise saying, applicable to more things than storms and storm tracks, that the average is something that rarely happens. In books on meteorology one finds descriptions of the "typical" West India hurricane and charts ...
races
About 1,000 reptd killed in Oct 27 cyclone
NEW DELHI, India, Dec. 26 (Reuters) -- India hopes to stop all imports of food grains by the end of 1951. Announcing this target at a recent conference of agricultural officials from all parts of India, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru said that fo...
Prices of cotton futures on the New York Cotton Exchange stiffened late in yesterday's session and final prices were 1 to 22 points net higher, with new-crop months showing the most strength.
death toll rises; 47 seamen missing
BOMBAY, Nov. 22 -- Seven persons were killed and more than a hundred injured in the past twenty hours as Bombay was lashed by the fiercest cyclonic storm in its history. Stones weighing a quarter of a ton were displaced by wind and water, causing ...
Sir Harvey Adamson (SS) reptd missing, off Tenasserim coast
Widespread famine, more severe than that which starved the Indian people in 1943, when more than 1,000,000 persons lost their lives, faces that nation unless 2,000,000 tons of cereals are made available in the next four months, ...
LONDON, Feb. 21--There are few things more frightening than to see a cyclone approach and know how helpless you are to do anything but "bow before the storm."
LONDON, Feb. 24--The United Nations unanimously adopted to  day a Big Five resolution aimed at meeting the world-wide food shortage after India's Sir Ramaswami Mudaliar had made a moving appeal for help "from countries we helped when we were in so...
NEW DELHI, India, Jan. 30-- Fears that large portions of India, involving perhaps a hundred million persons, will be gripped by famine this year as a result of crop shortages and inadequate imports were voiced by Indian poli-...
11 killed by cyclone, Rajasthan State

With the possible exception of a volcanic eruption, no event in nature is more awesome than a cyclonic storm. These gigantic whirlwinds, known in some areas as hurricanes and in others as typhoons, are often several hundred miles wide.  
heavy rain hits E India; damage
COLOMBO, Ceylon, Dec. 26-- The Government of Ceylon sent a plea today to Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India, for help in fighting floods.
BOMBAY, India, Nov. 29-- William L. Graham, an oilman of 1957 Easy Street in Wichita, Kan., returned to India today with more funds to help  young Indian capitalists start new businesses.
NEW DELHI, India, Aug. 1 --Another American crusader named Graham has created quite a stir in India. This one is campaigning for free enterprise.
Thousands of acres inundated, East; 20,000 reptd marooned in Agartala by Haora River
Tomlinson, H M
GETTYSBURG, Pa., Dec. 29 --President Eisenhower ordered the Navy today to go to the relief of flood-stricken Ceylon.
cyclone hits Andhra State coastal dists; 18 killed, many hurt
NEW DELHI, May 22 -- The death toll from a cyclone that battered coastal districts on the Bay of Bengal early this week mounted today to 300. Officials said the figure might well surpass 500.
BHUBANESWAR, India, Nov. 1 (Reuters) -- At least 35 persons were killed by a cyclone in coastal districts in Orissa State, official reports said today.
WASHINGTON -- It's called a willy willy in Australia, a baguio in the Philippines, a cyclone in India and a typhoon in the Western Pacific. But in the Americas the name for the most devastating, unpredictable and errant force of nature is the hurr...
PATNA, India, May 14 (Reuters)--A violent storm swept the famine-struck state of Bihar today, killing seven persons and forcing officials to close seven food kitchens where 5,000 destitute people were fed daily.
KARACHI, Pakistan -- The Pakistani economy made energetic progress last year after recovering from the adverse effects of the 1965 war with India, two consecutive years of drought and natural calamities, and a reduction of foreign economic aid.
WHAT happens when a first-rate writer produces a biography of a second-rate writer? Well, in Sylvia Townsend Warner's "T. H. White." it makes an uncommonly interesting book.
PECOS BILL King of  the Cowboys" at Theater East has several tasty ingredients, among them an exuberant tune called "Right Over Your Shoulder" and a fresh audience-participation gimmick whereby the kids are turned into howling coyotes. But the ing...


OXFORD, England--Thirty-seven years ago, a small group of idealists met in this university town to discuss the plight of children starving in Nazi-occupied Greece. Calling themselves the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief (later shortened to Oxfam...
MADRAS, India, Nov. 25 (AP)--A hurricane struck the southern Indian coast today after roaring across the island nation of Sri Lanka, where local newspapers reported that about 500 people had been killed.
NEW DELHI, Nov. 22--The Government began a major relief effort today as the official estimate of deaths from the cyclone that struck the state of Andhra Pradesh Saturday grew to 10,000.  
HYDERABAD, India, Nov. 20 (Reuters) At least 670 people died in a cyclone that swept the coast of the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh yesterday, it was announced tonight.
PENUMUDI, India, Dec. 5 The ferrymen of Penumudi, on the River Krishna, never dreaded a cyclone or flood before. They felt invulnerable. But the tropical cyclone that came upon them a few weeks ago, pushing a huge wave up the river, was the sort o...
NEW DELHI, Nov. 22--The Government began a major relief effort today as the official estimate of deaths from the cyclone that struck the state of Andhra Pradesh Saturday grew to 10,000.
NEW DELHI, Nov. 21 The death toll- in a cyclone over the weekend in southeastern India rose to about 3,000 tonight, according to official reports from the scene, and some estimates of the number dead were considerably higher.
NEW DELHI, Nov. 21 The death toll in a cyclone over the weekend in southeastern India rose to about 3,000 tonight, according to official reports from the scene, and some estimates of the number dead were considerably higher.  
Catholic Relief Services dir Bishop Edwin B Brodcrick says orgn has sent $1.3-million in emergency relief aid to India's cyclone and flood victims (S)
Bishop Edwin B. Broderick, director of the Catholic Relief Services, has announced that the organization's emergency aid to cyclone and flood victims in India amounted to $1.3 million during a recent 10-day period.
LEAD: A cyclone churned across the coastal areas of south India today, killing at least 50 people and sweeping away crops, power lines and mud-and-straw houses, news reports said.
LEAD: A cyclone that tore across Bangladesh and eastern India on Saturday killed at least 84 people and left more than half a million homeless, officials and news reports said today. Tens of thousands of mud and straw huts were blown away during t...
LEAD: A cyclone battered coastal areas of Bangladesh and eastern India late Tuesday, killing at least 300 people and leaving a trail of devastation, officials and news reports said today.
LEAD: Searchers traveled the river deltas and channels of southern Bangladesh today looking for more than 3,000 people reported missing after a cyclone that killed at least 1,300 people.
LEAD: It is not easy being a Bangladeshi these days. While our country is going under - literally and figuratively - the international community has responded with generous aid as well as a strong dose of cynicism and sarcasm. Ever since Henry Kis...
LEAD: To the Editor:

LEAD: Bangladesh is a nation seemingly founded on unstable footing.
LEAD: SPRAWLING across a vast delta where three of the world's great rivers meet, Bangladesh is the drainpipe of Central Asia. In bountiful times, the rich alluvial silt that covers most of the country yields as many as three rice crops a year. Bu...
LEAD: IF YOU HAVE READ HER BOOKS, HEARING MAXINE Hong Kingston's voice is a surprise. It is slightly breathless, almost girlish, out of sync with that of the fiercely impudent, unforgiving narrator of ''The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Amo...
India began relief operations today after a major cyclone battered its eastern coast, killing perhaps hundreds of people, officials said.    Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee said that there was no reliable estimate of the number of people kille...
In the aftermath of one of the mightiest cyclones in India's history, the government tried -- fitfully and often futilely -- to provide relief to 10 million people affected by the Oct. 29 storm in the eastern state of Orissa.     The military was ...
More than two days after a cyclone of monstrous power churned across the Bay of Bengal into India's east coast, as many as a million and a half people are homeless, hundreds of villages in one of the country's poorest states have been washed away ...
Troops have reached a ''hellish'' zone of devastation in Orissa, the eastern Indian state where a cyclone rampaged two weeks ago, killing almost 10,000 people, officials said today.     With flood waters beginning to recede, troops traveling by bo...
In this lesson, students examine, through investigating various news media sources, how different relief organizations and countries are aiding the Indian state of Orissa in the wake of the October 29, 1999 cyclone that devastated much of the stat...
In this lesson, students examine, through investigating various news media sources, how different relief organizations and countries are aiding the Indian state of Orissa in the wake of the October 29, 1999 cyclone that devastated much of the stat...
The eastern state of Orissa remained largely cut off from the rest of India today, four days after the most ferocious cyclone in recent memory tore through coastal areas with 160-mile-per-hour winds.     Army rescue teams have been unable to reach...
High Toll in India Cyclone  Thousands may have been killed when a cyclone struck India's east coast. Hundreds of villages were washed away and survivors lacked adequate food or water.   PAGE A3    Disney Going to Hong Kong  Walt Disney has agreed ...
After blessing the memorial at Gandhi's cremation site, Pope John Paul II today told Roman Catholic bishops in Asia to respect other religions, but not to lose sight of their ''call to conversion'' in the next millennium.    In the twilight of his...
Two crowded trains hurtled head on into each other early this morning, killing at least 210 people -- many of them soldiers -- at a railroad station in eastern India near the border of West Bengal and Assam, railway authorities said.    Throughout...
Millions of people remained marooned by floodwater or have been forced to live in shelters, officials said Tuesday.
A cyclone that tore into southern Bangladesh and eastern India is said to have killed at least 191 people and left hundreds of thousands homeless.
The cyclone set off tidal surges and flooding and killed at least 33 people, officials from Bangladesh and India said.
After receiving tsunami aid, members of the Irula caste have better jobs, more education and more power. Because they live together, they can stand together. They are a force to be reckoned with.
A journalist's journey through India reveals the potent divisions over climate change between communities with and without wealth and access to energy.
Emilio Morenatti of The Associated Press continues his outstanding coverage of Pakistan with this compassionate, mysterious picture of a boy at a refugee camp.
Emilio Morenatti of The Associated Press continues his outstanding coverage of Pakistan with this compassionate, mysterious picture of a boy at a refugee camp.
A robust influx of foreign money has showered aid on a small part of Myanmar’s population but has left other, equally desperate parts of the country to fend for themselves.
A new U.N. report says that the level of vulnerability does not always mirror economic conditions.
The verdict on Aung San Suu Kyi should not be the main focus of world attention.
The powerful storm made landfall on the country’s eastern coast after several hundred thousand people were evacuated.
A cyclone slammed into India's eastern seaboard on Thursday, killing at least five people, destroying huts, uprooting trees, snapping telephone poles and power lines and leaving hundreds of thousands without electricity.
A severe cyclone damaged homes and blew down trees and power poles in eastern India, where nine people were killed and about 300,000 forced to move to higher ground.
A severe cyclone damaged mud huts and uprooted trees and electric poles Thursday in eastern India where authorities have moved nearly 300,000 people to higher ground.
Forecasters say a tropical cyclone has formed in the Arabian Sea off Oman.
The extent of the damage was unclear and dozens of fishermen were still missing as high winds and flooding swept the area.
Tropical cyclones occur all over the world, but what they’re called depends on where they form.
Global warming poses an urgent threat to Kolkata, a river delta city of 14 million. A Times reporter returns home and learns: The city’s natural defenses are being lost. 
Global warming is bringing an era of wilder, more dangerous rains. The good news is that we’re getting better at evacuating flood zones. The bad news is everything else. 
A typhoon roaring ashore in Bangladesh in 1970 is the linchpin of “The Storm,” Arif Anwar’s bighearted debut novel.
receding waters leave about 10,000 dead; pestilence from unburied bodies seen imminent

WASHINGTON, Dec. 20. -- The Daily Consular Trade Report for to-morrow notes the following trade opportunities abroad. Further information regarding these may be obtained by addressing the Bureau of Manufactures, care of Department of Commerce and ...
WASHINGTON, Dec. 18. -- The Daily Consular and Trade Report for to-morrow notes the following trade opportunities abroad. Further information regarding these may be obtained by addressing the Bureau of Manufactures, care of Department of Commerce ...
Your editorial on "The Endowing of Individuals" expresses a prevailing but mistaken view that wealth and leisure handicap, while pressure and need produce achievement.
LONDON, June 29. -- "An Empire in Pawn" is the expressive title of a controversial volume by A.J. Wilson, a well-known finanical editor, on the economic condition of India and the Australian colonies and the question of free trade and protection. ...

PARIS, April 24. -- Summer, with all the loveliness of its first appearance, has suddenly come. Within a week the Bois has taken on the full glory of its leafage. The lindens of the boulevards spread their tender green. The chestnuts of the Champs...
BERLIN, Aug. 1. -- " The Yellow Flood" is the name of a so-called race romance just published by the well-known German novelist, Alexander Ular. In it he depicts the coming crucial struggle between China and Europe, but fights it out in the econom...
article on arguments for and against duty
LONDON, Dec. 16.--Another vessel was added to the list of former German ships mysteriously afire while lying at the Thames docks when the Boorah, under charter of the Australian Government and loaded with a general cargo, scheduled to sail today, ...
WHEREVER there is a great human catastrophe or need, there you will find the Salvation Army. The organization  has outposts in 58 countries and colonies and preaches salvation in 36 languages. It has 9,698 corps and posts, 1,191 social institution...
CHICAGO, June 7.--England has emerged from the war with the annexaion of territory larger than that of the  United States, and with an additional 50,000,000 subjects, said Justice Cohalan in addressing a meeting of the Friends of Irish Freedom her...
Lucy H. Reynolds urges contributing, lr
HAVE your fingerprints been taken?  Perhaps you bridle of the question. Probably you think that none but criminals are listed in the fingerprint indexes, and that the procedure is, in consequence, extremely bad form. But the fingerprint, of every ...
When the boys who have been wounded overseas are visited in the hospital by the vocational officer who wishes to help them to decide on a future occupation, they naually tell him that they would like to take up automobile work. In Canada so many h...
Beach Hill Inn, Inc
THE paradox of the classics! To most and perhaps all of us, to name a classic is to cause an instinctive revulsion, as if at something difficult, dry, and  forbidding.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 30. -- Confidential reports reaching Washington from official sources tell of widespread distrust of Japanese trade methods that war conditions emphasized. The English press of Japan, according to the reports, has been engaged fo...
THE publication of a new volume of Rudyard Kipling's verse is the most  Important literary happening of this nineteenth year of this twentieth century. Although Kipling has won his widest popularity as a teller of tales, he is also a singer of son...
300 lives lost in Dera district of Indus Valley; many towns swept away
Bhakkar, with 10,000 population, destroyed; 2,000 deaths reptd from cholera
Province of Sind, India, has plague following flood
flood subsiding
River Indus submerges many villages
Torrential monsoon rains cause serious damage on west coast
Ed
AKYAB, India, June 28 (AP).--Total damage estimated at nearly $1,000,000 has been done by floods resulting from torrential rains which have swept away several villages.
LAHORE, India, Aug. 18.--Released by the bursting of the great Shyok glacier dam, 17,000 feet up in the Karakorum range in Kashmir, the waters of the huge artificial lake which has been slowly gathering behind it for three years are pouring down t...
Cloudburst wipes out villages; 375 perish
30 mi of line wiped out by floods, United Provinces
SINGAPORE, Nov, 13--Within view of thousands of persons drawn to the waterfront by a violent explosion, the British India steamer Sirdhana, 7,745 tons, sank in the Singapore roads early this morning, less than twenty minutes after...  
Brahmaputra River overflows; Assam province damage
Steel companies yesterday received a flood of cable orders for iron and steel products from numerous foreign countries.  
Passengers of the United States liner President Harding, after their arrival here yesterday morning, praised the ship's doctor and the crew for heroic service to the injured. Despite their injuries, the passengers related humorous incidents.


RANGOON, Burma, Feb. 13.-- This city was generally quiet today after rioting yesterday, except for a bomb thrown today from the top floor of the police court building, which wounded a constable. The bomb was of crude local manufacture.
cool reception in Wash revd; career
FIRST philatelic recognition that the New York World's Fair is to be in progress again next year is made by Portugal through an overprint placed on one stamp from each of eight colonies.
NEW DELHI, India, Jan. 25 -- India's food imports for the current year will exceed all records. A Food Ministry official estimated today that imports for 1949-50 would be 4,500,000 tons as against 2,800,000 tons last year.
Ganges River floods Benares and dist; villages being evacuated
Benares Maharaja fasts to appease Ganges
Monsoon hits 3 areas
Britain devalued the pound sterling about a month ago, but major trade effects of the wave of currency devaluation still lie in the future.
YELLOW SPRINGS, Ohio, Sept. 19 -- Dr. Arthur E. Morgan, former president of Antioch College here, has accepted the invitation of the Government of India to serve on a nine-man commission to study India's system of higher education. He will fly abr...
Meth properties in United Provs of N India damaged
We will know shortly who has won the world series, but is there anyone rash enough today to say who is winning the cold war? The newly created eastern German Republic is one more proof that the cold war is being fought With undiminished bitterness...
The United Nations General Assembly is not, except in limited special cases, a legislature. It is not a representative body. It is not a body with great power of any kind -- except the power of influencing world public opinion. This can be and, du...
NEW DELHI, India, July 10 -- India's annual agony of waiting for the monsoon -- a period when the life or death of millions hangs on the vagaries of winds and temperature -- ended happily yesterday with the falling of the rains.
70 dead, W Bengal
heavy rains, central area and E and W coasts; 24 dead
NEW DELHI, India, Oct. 18 -- Severe floods and drought in eastern India are being officially described as a "major disaster."
gets 2 truckloads of gifts from all over India
Tapti River breaks dike, Surat; 500 reptd dead or missing, 15,000 homeless
NEW DELHI, India, July 18 -- The entire economy of Jammu and Kashmir state is reported to have virtually collapsed as a result of disastrous floods that struck the territory early this month.
NEW DELHI, India, Sept. 23 -- Leaders of India's ruling Congress party conferred here today on a proposal to divide the state of Bombay into two. The purpose of the division would be to avoid a repetition of the bitter riots of 1956 in which hundr...
USN destroyer arrives with supplies
2 dead, 500 villages inundated
NEW DELHI, India, Nov. 15 -- Parliament will reconvene here tomorrow for a six-week session that is expected to be dominated by the border dispute between India and Communist China.
NEW DELHI, May 22 -- The death toll from a cyclone that battered coastal districts on the Bay of Bengal early this week mounted today to 300. Officials said the figure might well surpass 500.

cholera epidemic perils flooded areas
CALCUTTA, India, Oct. 7 (AP) -- Floods and landslides caused by four days of torrential rains in India's sub-Himalaya region have killed at least 780 people, official spokesmen said tonight.
at least 50 drown in floods that have caused extensive damage in 2 districts of Gujarat State
town in western India still submerged under 10 ft of flood waters; more than 1,000 have died in 7 days in floods in states of Gujarat and Rajasthan; effects of flood and rescue and repair operations noted; map
NEW DELHI, Nov. 2 -- Indian military men are working around the clock on a new road to Sikkim as an alternative to the highway that was washed out in many places by floods early this month.
NEW DELHI, July 15 (Reuters) -At least 80 persons were killed in monsoon floods that ravaged six Indian states during the last week, leaving thousands homeless and crops damaged.
NEW DELHI, Nov. 5 -- The governing Congress party accepted today in theory, but firmly rejected in practice, a call for total prohibition of alcohol in India.
League of Red Cross Societies appeals for aid for victims in E Pakistan
NEW DELHI, Oct. 13 (UPI)--At least 13 persons were drowned in flooding of the Brahmaputra River in the northeastern state of Assam, Indian officials said today.
HYDERABAD, India--On a promontory at the confluence of two rivers 150 miles from here, teams of workmen have almost dismantled an important seventh century Hindu temple. It is one of 59 temples in the area that archeologists are ...
NEW DELHI, Aug. 12 A rain-weakened dam burst in western India and sent a wall of water nearly 20 feet high crashing through the city of Morvi, killing hundreds and possibly thousands of residents, officials reported today.
NEW DELHI, Aug. 14 (AP)--Search parties have recovered the bodies of 500 people drowned after the collapse of the dam near Morvi, on India's western coast.
illus of helicopter dropping bags of food and other supplies to flood survivors
NEW DELHI, Aug. 13 (Reuters)-- Rescue workers dug through six-footdeep mud today, searching for thousands of people feared killed when waters from a collapsed dam inundated an industrial town in western India, sweeping away factories, houses and b...
NEW DELHI, Aug. 15 Four days after a flash flood ravaged the industrial town of Morvi in the state of Gujarat, officials were still unable to assess the loss of life and the extent of damage.
NEW DELHI, Aug. 6 (Reuters)--Indian army units today evacuated hundreds of people marooned by floods in northern India. At least 92 villages in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have been flooded following heavy rains, and more than 25,000 pe...
NEW DELHI, May 14 (Reuters)--The death toll from the hurricane and floods on the southeast Indian coast over the weekend rose to at least 52 today. Local officials said about 160,000 dwellings had been destroyed or damaged in Andhra Pradesh State.
NEW DELHI, July 22 (Reuters)-- More than two million people have been affected by floods in northeastern India, the United News of India news agency reported today.
LEAD: AS Sri Lanka and India edge toward an agreement that will send 40,000 Indian peacekeeping troops home, people on both sides of the straits that separate the two countries are counting the political costs of New Delhi's ill-fated foray into a...
LEAD: Over the next five days, nearly half a billion voters in India will be asked to determine the fate of Asia's oldest political dynasty and the direction of a nation that hopes to be in the ranks of the great powers in the next century.
LEAD: To the Editor:
LEAD: A small but growing rock music movement is spreading across the cities of India. Rock fans are turning to young Indian musicians who are writing original songs and music instead of merely reproducing the hits of American and other Western st...
LEAD: As monsoon rains begin to fall again on Bangladesh, the World Bank is mobilizing an international force of scientists and aid officials to draft a comprehensive, long-term plan to save this vulnerable nation from perennial catastrophe.
LEAD: As waters receded steadily today in India's northwest, thousands of people fled flood-damaged villages for shelter in relief camps, said an official in Punjab, the worst hit of four Indian states.
LEAD: The death toll from floods that have submerged many areas in India's northwest was nearing 1,000 today, according to reports from the region. Hundreds of thousands of residents in four states have been evacuated to higher ground.
LEAD: In an appeal to the General Assembly, the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh said today that a permanent solution to the country's annual flood disasters must be reached through regional cooperation with international support.
LEAD: A dispute with India is forcing Nepal, one of the world's poorest and least accessible countries, to fight for its economic survival, a fight that is also testing its political stability.
LEAD: The Indian Government today deflected pleas from Bangladesh for an international approach to flood control in South Asia and announced instead that there would be another joint Indian-Bangladeshi study of river waters.
In the aftermath of one of the mightiest cyclones in India's history, the government tried -- fitfully and often futilely -- to provide relief to 10 million people affected by the Oct. 29 storm in the eastern state of Orissa.     The military was ...
Sadly, alarmingly, endlessly, there is trouble in paradise. The Vale of Kashmir, once exalted for the lotus blooms in its lakes and the yellow tapestry of its mustard fields, has become a valley of despair -- a place haunted by senseless murder an...
Like a maharajah in a royal tableau, Laloo Yadav, self-proclaimed tribune of the downtrodden, sailed to this remote, dirt poor village in a wooden boat, standing grandly at its prow. His bejeweled fingers flashed as he waved to the people on shore...
Troops have reached a ''hellish'' zone of devastation in Orissa, the eastern Indian state where a cyclone rampaged two weeks ago, killing almost 10,000 people, officials said today.     With flood waters beginning to recede, troops traveling by bo...
When I was young in India, for four years I reported a story I wrote of as ''the great adventure'' and believed was one of the most important of our century.     During the decade after India became independent a half-century ago, I relished that ...
The eastern state of Orissa remained largely cut off from the rest of India today, four days after the most ferocious cyclone in recent memory tore through coastal areas with 160-mile-per-hour winds.     Army rescue teams have been unable to reach...
For years, earthquakes, floods and other natural calamities back home have kindled patriotic sentiments among immigrants in this country, compelling them to open their checkbooks in the spirit of good will. Now, in a moment of unprecedented nation...
A central riddle of Indian politics was about to be answered here as the cyber-savvy Chief Minister of one of India's largest states, the country's most dynamic economic reformer, rose to address a huge, raucous political rally in this hardscrabbl...
INTERNATIONAL   3-23    U.N. Workers Become Targets in Angry Lands  United Nations workers struggling to save lives and lessen human misery around the globe are being killed, kidnapped, detained, raped, robbed, attacked and harassed as never befor...
A dispute over the agenda that appears to pit developing nations against the United States has injected a tense atmosphere into preparations for the World Trade Organization's summit meeting next month.    Nonindustrialized countries in the 134-me...
Four days of heavy rainfall at the end of the monsoon season deluged villages and farmland, killing 240 and leaving thousands homeless.
BEIJING — A Chinese official said a recent visit by the Indian prime minister to a Himalayan territory that China claims as its own has jeopardized China-India relations.
For two of India’s biggest problems, battered roads and overflowing landfills, Ahmed Khan has a single solution: streets made with recycled plastic.
A Tibetan official said the Dalai Lama will go ahead with the planned visit, despite protests from the Chinese Foreign Ministry.
The 2004 tsunami — and the flood of aid money that followed — has given devastated villages in India a second chance.
Indian troops helped evacuate more than 120,000 people from monsoon-related flooding in eastern India, officials said Thursday.
The crisis has underscored the problems facing Indian agriculture as the population expands at the same time that water resources come under greater pressure.
Authorities have warned that many victims have gone days without food and that drinkable water is running out in overcrowded camps for the displaced, a week after floods struck northern India.
India used a visit by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to dig in its heels against legally binding targets to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide.
Relations between China and India have soured over a patch of border land that has a Tibetan cultural heritage.
The United Arab Emirates offered $100 million to help the recovery, but the Indian government turned it down.
Scenes of valor are going viral from the southwestern Indian state, which has been inundated by its worst floods in nearly a century.
Their shores are protected by an embankment of sandbags and concrete barriers, but the residents of Majuli, a river island in India's northeastern Assam state, are struggling to survive in a place that has been rapidly diminished by flooding and e...
The floods have left at least 324 people dead, and hundreds of thousands more have been made homeless.
Global warming is bringing an era of wilder, more dangerous rains. The good news is that we’re getting better at evacuating flood zones. The bad news is everything else. 

Global warming poses an urgent threat to Kolkata, a river delta city of 14 million. A Times reporter returns home and learns: The city’s natural defenses are being lost. 
A severe cyclone damaged homes and blew down trees and power poles in eastern India, where nine people were killed and about 300,000 forced to move to higher ground.
Heavy rains have caused some of the region’s worst flooding in nearly a century, killing more than 300 people and displacing thousands.
False rumors of child kidnappers have gone viral on WhatsApp in India, prompting fearful mobs to kill two dozen innocent people since April
The question of the benevolence of British rule in India may easily be determined by reference to a few ascertained and indubitable facts.
ONE of the first requisites which he who attempts to portray a difficult subject in popular language must possess is a thorough recognition and careful rejection of what will prove uninteresting to his readers. The writer of the volume* before us ...
LONDON, Nov. 30. -- Oratory of a high order marked the final debate on the reection of the budget in the House of Lords to-day. In particular the speeches Lord Curzon of Kedleston, former Vice-y of India, and the Archbishop of York ere of exceptio...
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 7. -- With a world's wheat crop for the second year in succession much below the average, says a European crop report of the Department of Agriculture, the extent of the probable European demand for foreign wheat is a subjec...
WASHINGTON, Oct. 17. -- The foreign crop report of the Department of Agriculture, which has just been issued, says the shortage of the wheat crop in Russia, reported in the first quantitative estimate of the Central Statistical Committee, was a su...
The decline in wheat prices has brought into prominence the unusually large crop of the Argentine Republic, which will soon pour into the European market. A further damper on bullish sentiment has been found in the Agricultural Department's latest...
AT the very beginning of the work of carrying out the plan for New York's new water supply system a difficulty has arisen which, if not adjusted in a manner to obviate repetitions of it, is likely, in the opinion of experts, to defer its completio...

Americans are to supply the material and equipment for a hydro-electric power plant, which is to generate energy to operate an electric railroad system in the Cashmere Valley, and to furnish power for other purposes in the Himalaya Mountains, Nort...
According to the census of 1891, India, including Burma, with an area of 1,600,000 square miles, had a population of 287,000,000. Despite famines and epidemics, the population has grown largely during the last few years, and, summing it all up in ...
The first forecast of the 1918-19 indigo crop was issued recently by the Indian Department of Statistics, according to Consul General James A. Smith of Calcutta.  
IT is quite unusual that the terms introduced by one of the signatories  of a treaty should be almost entirely based on the report of an engineer.
Cotton yesterday furnished a typical Saturday market with a range of about 7 points on a light volume of trading. There was enough scattered realizing over the week-end to cause a net loss for the day of 3 to 5 points.  
IT may not have occurred to you that this is the centenary of the time that has come down to us in meteorological history as "The Year Without a Summer." One of the reasons for overlooking the anniversary may he found probably in the fact that, co...
The letter of Lewis R. Freeman in a recent issue of THE TIMES is timely and contains enlightenment as to the difficulties in the path of an army marching on the Suez Canal. What Mr. Freeman did not state is that the season in which such an attack ...
Cotton yesterday showed a net loss of 1 to 2 points, but these figures do not tell the whole story of a session which proved rather disappointing to local bulls. Liverpool was considerably higher than due and the local market opened at an advance ...
LONDON, Sept. 20. -- In these days of currency reform in the United States the fact that the Royal Commission on Indian Finance is discussing the advisability of establishing a State Bank for all India is of more than usual interest.  
Investors in securities had several months in which to consider the possible effect of a new tariff on business and trade, but it seems as though the close proximity of lower duties has promoted much more conservatism than the long period of conte...
group tours Northwest
Even Palestine is awakening at the touch of trade. Vice Consul Lewis Hick, stationed at Jerusalem, writes the Department of Commerce and Labor that the commercial situation in his Consular district last year was a distinct advance over the precedi...
THIS Summer's weather has suited nobody. Hot spells have been too frequent for comfort in the city and cold ones for  the profits of the Summer resorts. Farmers bewail persistent drought. Shipmasters complain of storms and ...
LONDON, Oct. 3--Owing to the lateness of the monsoon that brings rain and, with rain, fertility to India, that country, according to a Simla dispatch to The London Dally Telegraph...
SINCE time immemorial man has tried without success to make  rain. In Hongkong recently aviators flying in the clouds dropped powdered kaolin, hoping thereby to ...
GLORIES of dead civilizations are recalled by places in the  news of the week. In South America a discovery is thought to have put seekers once again on the trail of the lost treasure of the Incas. In this country a town famous, not for glories bu...
SUPERSTITIONS relative to rainfall appear still to exist in remote parts of the world. A recent story from South Africa  relates that natives, following tribal law, put to death two pair of twins in order to bring rain during a prolonged drought.
ONCE more the scourge of drought has fallen upon the northeast corner of Brazil--the "Nordeste" of lamentable renown. In the "rainy " season of last Spring the rains failed. The disaster appears to have been a mild one compared with many of former...
This is the day of meteorological research. A great deal remains to be known before seasonal forecasts can be made with confidence. Scientists agree that storm centres in the Arctic and Antarctic determine the weather in large land masses and the ...
DES MOINES, Iowa, Dec. 27.-- Fixing the origin of man many millions of years before the time generally assumed, and asserting that man did not spring from the ape, but followed an evolution all his own, Professor Henry Fairfield Osborn, head of th...
Heavy rainfall creates floods in Gujarat and Kathiawar
LAHORE, India, Aug. 13.--The great ice dam on the Shyok River burst last night and today mighty torrents are rushing down the Indus Valley from the mountains.
rept on exports, Apr-May
The tropical storm affecting the East Gulf Coast with a precipitation of almost 5 inches at Mobile and heavy rains throughout the State caused advances of 4 to 8 points in prices on the Cotton Exchange here yesterday.  
The action of outside markets influenced yesterday the course of prices on the Cotton Exchange. After an early improvement quotations eased 10 points to end unchanged to 2 points lower. Reports of a less favorable outlook for the crop in India bec...
After easing 10 points on a sharp setback in Liverpool, prices on the Cotton Exchange here recovered yesterday to end 4 points higher to 4 points lower. Although Bombay straddle interests released July contracts ...  
Japan has experienced some improvement in business outlook owing to further gains in export trade and the prospect of improved business in the United States, according to a weekly summary of developments in business abroad, based on cable and radi...
WHEN homesteaders sixty years ago pushed into what is now North Dakota they found in  the region a great salt lake. Devils Lake, they called it, and  on its shores they built a town to which they gave the same name.
Prices on the Cotton Exchange moved upward yesterday for the fourth successive session and ended unchanged to a gain of 3 points. In line with previous price movements this week, recessions were limited and late covering left quotations around the...

In sympathy with a buoyant stock market and improvement in most other commodities, cotton gained 7 to 8 points yesterday. Increased activity in goods quarters, which swelled sales to the largest business for any single week in several months, and ...
Prices on the New York Cotton Exchange steadied again yesterday and under persistent trade calling ended with net gains of 3 to 7 points. October proved the strongest month under buying by spot houses, whereas limited selling orders appeared to be...
Monsoon, Bombay, 2d heaviest in city's weather history
BOMBAY, India, Aug. 15 -- A torrential rainfall did not diminish the enthusiasm of several hundred thousand persons here today from a joyous celebration of the first anniversary of India's independence.
The bejeweled Maharajah of Morvi, a small state in northwest India, who estimated his personal fortune at "many millions of pounds," arrived here yesterday on the liner Queen Mary "without an American cent."
THIS is the third book by Dr. Lane about the marvels of the physical world. Others have dealt with the seas and with the more important lakes. Both these previous works were welcome contributions to the field of popular science, very much superior...
THE next hundred years may quite possibly see the transformation of the Amazon basin, one of the largest of the earth's "empty spaces," into a vast tropical granary and a home for millions of people from overcrowded lands. Such an eventuality woul...
Punjab and Madras crops threatened by drought
BOMBAY, Nov. 22 -- Seven persons were killed and more than a hundred injured in the past twenty hours as Bombay was lashed by the fiercest cyclonic storm in its history. Stones weighing a quarter of a ton were displaced by wind and water, causing ...
Temperatures generally above the freezing mark kept New York from being smothered yesterday under another deep covering of snow. Rainfall during Monday night changed to mixed snow and rain or snow during the day, but in most of the city it melted ...
As India approaches independence she also enters the shadow of catastrophe which may throw the whole teeming land into anarchy and ruin. Famine, never far away, is marching ...  

record 670.35-in rainfall, yr, Mawsyhram
CHICAGO, Sept. 11 (AP) -A brisk early rally in soybean futures, sparked by the Government's September crop report, faded rapidly today under late profit-taking and all contracts finished well below their previous closes on the Board of Trade.  
THE infrequent traveler setting foot on one of the Himalayan passes into Tibet senses at once that he has entered a world apart. At the frontier, Buddhist prayer flags flutter and snap in the high wind. To mark his safe arrival, the wayfarer adds ...
Walker, (Sir) Gilbert, 90

NEW DELHI, India, Jan. 31 -- India and Pakistan are studying important new proposals for ending the dispute over control of the waters that bring life to the farmlands of the Indus River basin.
Prospects improved last week for converting the Middle East from a potential launching pad for war to a main testing ground of economic competition by the United States and Russia.  

SAIGON, Vietnam, Sept. 28 --One of the proudest moments in the history of South Vietnam will take place Monday when it will become official host to representatives of onequarter of the earth's population.
CALCUTTA, India, Jan. 4--Indian meteorologists today described the tiny village of Mawsyndram as the world's wettest place. It was the third straight ...  
SANTIAGO, Chile, Dec. 24 -A group of amateur pilots has attracted the interest and financial assistance of the Chilean and United States Governments in their experiments to bring rain water to one of the driest deserts on earth.
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 15 -The developers of the highyield cereals that are increasing food production dramatically in hungry countries reported today a major victory for their seeds over drought and disease.
NEW DELHI, Nov. 2 -- Indian military men are working around the clock on a new road to Sikkim as an alternative to the highway that was washed out in many places by floods early this month.
The word cancer conjures up alarming images: for most people it is a dreaded disease, usually fatal, associated with mutilation, deformity and suffering. Physicians themselves, not immune to such sentiments and fears, disguise the presence of canc...
ADEN, March 9 -- Descendants of Greek and Portuguese colonists still live happily on Socotra island, 500 miles offshore in the Indian Ocean.
Chocolate bars and candies may get smaller, or more expensive, mainly because of too much rain in West Africa.  
PARIS, Dec. 16 -- The world's water supply would be ample were it not taxed by man's ignorance and folly, according to experts who ended a weeklong conference at Unesco House here today.
NEW DELHI--"The clouds advance like rutting elephants, enormous and full of rain. They come forward as kings among tumultuous armies; their flags are the lightning, the thunder is their drum."
SKI areas in the Laurentians of Canada, as well as many in upper New England, will begin their seasons officially over the Thanksgiving weekend. Several New England areas were a jump ahead last weekend, and opened with limited facilities, because ...
Towering above the jungles of Southeast Asia are the temples of the ancient Khmer civilization. They were built of Laterite, a rocky substance, formed by a process that may have helped bring about that empire's downfall.
ATHENS, Oct. 7 (AP)--Fire gutted a Swissair DC-8 jetliner tonight, killing atleast eight of the 154 persons on board after the plane skidded to a halt on a rainswept runway at Athens international airport, according to authorities.  
NEW DELHI, June 16--With the temperature here now regularly reaching an afternoon high of 110 degrees, almost all of India is engaged in the annual exercise of waiting for the monsoon.
MOTRAN, India--Well before the hot morning sun creeps over the graybrown hills nearby, bringing dawn to this tiny village, Sushila Das is up and out, on her way to get her family's drinking water.
NEW DELHI, April 25--Food production in India this year is breaking all records, the Government announced today, but continued population growth and other problems are expected to prevent improvement in the diets of most Indians.
HARGEISA, Somalia, Feb. 16 The immediate threat of a major plague of desert locusts emanating from the Horn of Africa has abated, according to field workers of international organizations set up to combat the insects.
NAIROBI, Kenya, Jan. 29--In East Africa, it appears to be the year of the locust. Alarms were raised as swarms of the insects were sighted in the Arabian Peninsula and on the Red Sea coast covering areas as big as 100 square miles.
The land is dying. Over vast reaches of every continent the rainfall, soil fertility and vegetation necessary to most forms of life are diminishing or disappearing. The result is that the world's deserts are spreading and new deserts are appearing...
WASHINGTON, May 15 For the first time in five years, the world is entering its primary growing season without fear that crop failures may generate a food crisis for any broad section of the globe.  
With good reason melons have been called the fruit of the gods. Few raw foods have the taste, aroma and pleasing texture of ripe, juicy melons.  
DACCA, Bangladesh, Dec. 7 (AP) Ziaur Rahman, the military strongman of Bangladesh, has arrested more than 100 persons, including some prominent politicians, since he took over the country in name as well as fact last week. He also appears to be ga...
LEAD: 
SHABANU 
Daughter of the Wind. 
By Suzanne Fisher Staples. 
240 pp. New York: 
Alfred A. Knopf. 
(Ages 12 and up)
LEAD: IN the four decades since independence, India has used advanced farming techniques to triple its grain output and banish the old specter of famine. But this remarkable achievement has also brought serious environmental problems.
LEAD:  London Christmas  Question: We will be in London Dec. 24, 25 and 26 this year. We have heard that historical sites and stores are closed. Please advise as to what do at that time. - P. W. G., Baldwin Harbor, L.I.  Answer: Most stores, museu...
LEAD: PROVIDING evidence that environmentalists and Brazilian officials say could slow the pace of large-scale clearing of tropical forests, a team of scientists has found that rain forests are worth more if left standing than if cut for timber or...
LEAD: CHASING after the glittering prize of India more than 400 years ago, Mogul invaders used both military might and statecraft to subdue those who stood in their way. Today the legends surrounding their battles and alliances with the powerful R...
LEAD: The world can expect widespread economic decline and social disruption in the 1990's unless national leaders make a serious commitment to reverse the deterioration of the earth's environmental systems, a Washington-based research group said ...
LEAD: The nationwide drought in India has brought on the country's worst economic slump in eight years but did not do as much damage as many experts had feared earlier, according to the Government of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.
LEAD: THE demand for organically grown vegetables coupled with a desire to help local farmers has prompted some consumers to try a new approach to produce shopping. They are in effect buying a subscription to the crops. A result is a guaranteed su...
LEAD: Following is a listing for 20 places around the world of average April rainfall and the number of days in which there is measurable precipitation.               Rainfall   Rainy        (in inches)   Days              Death Valley, Calif.    ...
LEAD:  Air Strike In Australia Causes Delays
EUROPE    BRITAIN: NANNY'S PARENTS CHARGED -- The parents of Louise Woodward, the English nanny convicted of manslaughter in the death of an infant in Boston in 1997, have been charged by the police with theft from the trust fund set up to pay for...
Who -- or what -- will open the Times Capsule a thousand years hence? Correct predictions are considered the ultimate test of the hard sciences like physics and chemistry. For those of us in the so-called soft sciences -- like historians, evolutio...
INTERNATIONAL   A2-5    $700 Million More Pledged To Rebuild in the Balkans  President Clinton and 38 other world leaders met in Sarajevo to inaugurate a huge effort to rebuild southeastern Europe and its economy from the ravages of a decade of wa...
INTERNATIONAL   A3-10    Another Blast in Russia Highlights Vulnerability  An explosion tore apart an apartment complex in Volgodonsk, in the south of Russia, killing at least 18 people and injuring more than 200. The bombing was the fifth in Russ...
Scientists have long theorized that climatic changes related to global warming could unleash outbreaks of diseases like malaria, dengue fever, cholera and heat stroke. But with the modest amount of warming experienced so far, they have been unable...
INTERNATIONAL   A3-11    Serbs Return Bodies From Attacks in Kosovo  Serbian police returned for burial 51 bodies of ethnic Albanians killed in a sweep of what they said were rebel strongholds in central Kosovo Province. Serbian officials contende...
Pick up a geography textbook from the first half of this century and you can discover a simple rule-of-thumb explanation for the varying fates of the human race: the weather.    ''As a rule, people do their best thinking and planning, their minds ...
WHAT, Americans worry?     To the frustration of environmental activists, the still-distant risks from global warming have yet to grab the attention of Main Street. But to many economists, the difficulty in mobilizing public support to meet Americ...
AS the latest version of the powerful weather-maker known as El Nino develops into a giant of its breed in the tropical Pacific, forecasters are beginning to get a clearer idea of how and where its impact will be felt globally in the weeks and mon...
Columbia/HCA Warns Earnings Will Be Lower  The Government inquiry into Columbia/HCA Healthcare and stagnant business at its 342 hospitals will push third-quarter earnings at the troubled health care provider down. The company said that per-share e...
Four days of heavy rainfall at the end of the monsoon season deluged villages and farmland, killing 240 and leaving thousands homeless.
The crisis has underscored the problems facing Indian agriculture as the population expands at the same time that water resources come under greater pressure.
The Himalayas are melting, and the people down below need help to adapt.
Divisions that will make an agreement difficult include rich versus poor nations, carbon taxers versus carbon traders, and areas of Europe versus others.
Kumi Naidoo, who was named executive director of Greenpeace International this month, shares his views on a range of energy and climate topics in an interview with Green Inc.
An arid continent has suffered cycles of drought and dust storms for centuries. What is different now?
An arid continent has suffered cycles of drought and dust storms for centuries. What is different now?
Scientists studying variations in tropical heat and rainfall since the mid-1980s have found a strong link between warm periods and more extreme downpours.     The observed rise in the heaviestrains is about twice that produced by computer simulati...
Rising temperatures around the globe are linked to extreme downpours and flooding, researchers said on Thursday.
“Brown clouds” made up of toxic chemicals are blotting out the sun in large parts of Asia, a U.N. report said.
Some 600 million Indians, about half the population, face high to extreme water scarcity conditions, with about 200,000 dying every year from inadequate access to safe water, says a government report.
Some of the poorest and hungriest people in the world will see their living standards decline sharply if emissions continue to grow at their current pace, a study by the World Bank found.
Scenes of valor are going viral from the southwestern Indian state, which has been inundated by its worst floods in nearly a century.
Global warming poses an urgent threat to Kolkata, a river delta city of 14 million. A Times reporter returns home and learns: The city’s natural defenses are being lost. 
The floods have left at least 324 people dead, and hundreds of thousands more have been made homeless.
The Indian governments and elites have ignored the deepening rural economic distress.
Global warming is bringing an era of wilder, more dangerous rains. The good news is that we’re getting better at evacuating flood zones. The bad news is everything else. 
The extent of the damage was unclear and dozens of fishermen were still missing as high winds and flooding swept the area.
Here’s what you need to know at the end of the day.
People from Britain to Bangladesh are paying a price for unabated climate change.
